# SOEN287-Project for Concordia University
We are building an online booking system that would allow student pilots as well as licensed pilots to book flight training sessions through our website, then log the flight time. This would expose future pilots to the CAE(mock client for this website) brand and familiarize them to the range of products available. It would help future pilots achieve their license goals more easily, and assist trained pilots in advancing their abilities by training them with new aircraft systems. In addition, the user-friendly interface will encourage students to use CAE’s services. It would help cement CAE as an industry leader by building brand loyalty from the outset of a pilots career.

The website’s core functionality will be as a booking system that logs flight hours in order to track the pilots training progress. Users would be able to make an account on the website then view which training centers have booking availability. The students pilots account would keep track of information such as name, enrollment date, payment method. The account would also log progress towards certain licensing goals. e.g 77/80 hours to solo small plane, 3/50 hours to flying using only instrumentation (aka 0 visibility) .

This would include a welcome page with login, a calendar view to see available time slots, a booking page that would display more information about the training center, and an account page that would display the users profile and track their progress.

The ‘welcome page’ will introduce the users to the site as well as introduce them to CAE, it will include recent updates from CAE or from the training centers. The welcome page will also link to the booking system as well as the calendar page, and it will allow users to log in or sign up’. It will also link to the information pages on CAE, and the information pages of the different training locations.

The Calendar view page will allow students to view the time slots that are available for the various training centers or flight schools, helping them to pick which are the best dates for their real flight or simulation training sessions. Also, many student pilots have restrictions put in place on what weather conditions they can fly in or the weather conditions of their specific region. Consequently we would like to integrate some short term weather forecasts into the calendar view. The calendar would pull local weather for the city the student lives in. The weather information displayed on the calendar will be pulled from real weather data and the schedules will have options for both virtual and real flight hours depending on whether the real weather permits flying or not.

The booking screen will allow the pilots to select the training sessions that they have already identified through the calendar page and schedule this training session with the designated flight training center. It will display information on the location, and links to their specific center information pages. Given the hypothetical environment that the site is in we will supplement the page with different training schedules that we will have come up with ourselves as well as the fares and locations.

The user profile will outline the users training history. It will also provide various information about when the user joined, the various training centers and flight schools they have attended. Their history will be outlined in the number of hours they have accumulated for the different types of flight trainings that they have done. The types will vary from the different aircrafts they have flown in the form of real flight hours, as well as the various flight simulator hours they have accumulated, and also the weather conditions they have flown in both in real flight hours as well as in the virtual environments.

---
CAE is a Canadian manufacturer that builds flight simulators to train pilots. Their technology allows pilots to train in an immersive simulated environment that acclimates them to flying various models of planes for commercial purposes. Every type of aircraft requires its own flight simulator. They have several training locations for their flight simulators. They also work with flight academies that allow pilots to train in real aircrafts. CAE is the largest civil aviation network in the world and graduates over a thousand cadets every year. Furthermore, CAE trains over 220,000 commercial pilots and cabin crew members using over 50 training locations.

Takeoff Montreal, our project for a web development class, is the booking system that 'works' with CAE to assist students in booking the required training sessions with either a training center with a flight simulator or a flight academy with a real aircraft.
